pytest/tests/loadtest/locust/README.md, before:

# Locust based load testing

WIP: This is work in progress, motivation described in https://github.com/near/nearcore/issues/8999

TLDR: Use [locust](https://locust.io/) to generate transactions against a Near chain and produce statistics.

## Install
```sh
pip3 install locust
# Run in nearcore directory.
pip3 install -r pytest/requirements.txt
```

## Run a first load test

The load generator needs access to a FT contract WASM and it needs access to an account key with plenty of tokens.
For a local test setup, this works just fine.
```sh
# This assumes your shell is are in nearcore directory
CONTRACT="${PWD}/runtime/near-test-contracts/res/fungible_token.wasm"
# This assumes you are running against localnet
KEY=~/.near/localnet/node0/validator_key.json
```

For a quick demo, you can also run a localnet using [nearup](https://github.com/near/nearup).
```sh
nearup run localnet --binary-path ../nearcore/target/release/ --num-nodes 4 --num-shards 4 --override
```

Then to actually run it, this is the command. (Update ports and IP according to your localnet, nearup will print it.)
```sh
cd pytest/tests/loadtest/locust/
locust -H 127.0.0.1:3030 \
  FTTransferUser \
  --fungible-token-wasm=$CONTRACT \
  --funding-key=$KEY \
  --tags ft
```

This will print a link to a web UI where the loadtest can be started and statistics & graphs can be observed.
But if you only want the pure numbers, it can also be run headless.
(add `--headless` and something like `-t 120s -u 1000` to the command to specify total time and max concurrent users)

## Running with full load (multi-threaded or even multi-machine)

Each locust process will only use a single core. This leads to unwanted
throttling on the load generator side if you try to use more than a couple
hundred of users.

Luckily, locust has the ability to swarm the load generation across many processes.
To use it, start one process with the `--master` argument and as many as you
like with `--worker`. (If they run on different machines, you also need to
provide `--master-host` and `--master-port`, if running on the same machine it
will work automagically.)

Start the master
```sh
locust -H 127.0.0.1:3030 \
  FTTransferUser \
  --fungible-token-wasm=$CONTRACT \
  --funding-key=$KEY \
  --tags ft \
  --master
```

On the worker
```sh
# Increase soft limit of open files for the current OS user
# (each locust user opens a separate socket = file)
ulimit -S -n 100000
# Run the worker, key must include the same account id as used on master
locust -H 127.0.0.1:3030 \
  FTTransferUser \
  --fungible-token-wasm=$CONTRACT \
  --funding-key=$KEY \
  --tags ft \
  --worker
```

Spawning N workers in a single shell:
```sh
for i in {1..16}
do
   locust -H 127.0.0.1:3030 \
    FTTransferUser \
    --fungible-token-wasm=$CONTRACT \
    --funding-key=$KEY \
    --tags ft \
    --worker &
done
```

Use `pkill -P $$` to stop all workers.
Stopping the master will also terminate all workers.

# Available load types

User classes can be used as subcommand of `locust` to run a specific load test.
By default, all user classes are combined. But the example above selects
specifically `FTTransferUser`.


When selecting user classes, it is also necessary to select the right tags that
control initialization code. For example, running with `locustFTTransferUser`
requires `--tags ft`.

Currently supported load types:

| load type | user classes | tag | args | description |
|---|---|---|---|---|
| Fungible Token | `FTTransferUser` | `ft` | `--fungible-token-wasm $WASM_PATH` <br> (`--num-ft-contracts $N`) |  Creates `$N` FT contracts per worker, registers each user in one of them. Users transfer FTs between each other. |
| Social DB  | `SocialDbUser` | `social` | `--social-db-wasm $WASM_PATH` | Creates a single instance of SocialDB and registers users to it. Users post messages and follow other users. (More workload TBD) |

In the future, we might have multiple users per load type but for now there is a
one-to-one mapping from users to load type (and tag).

If the table above seems outdated, list available classes using `locust
--funding-key . --list` and send a PR to fix it, please.

Commit message:

Locust Congestion Workload (#9157)
This PR introduces a Locust Workload for the Congestion Test: https://github.com/near/nearcore/issues/8920.

A typical run would be:
```sh
CONTRACT="path/to/nearcore/runtime/near-test-contracts/res/test_contract_rs.wasm"
locust -H 127.0.0.1:3030 \
  CongestionUser \
  --congestion-wasm=$CONTRACT \
  --funding-key=$KEY \
  --tags congestion
```

Then cranking up the number of users to 50-200 should be enough to cause congestion.

Wishlist of things I want to improve:
- Remove the need to specify `CONTRACT` variable every time as we know which contract we want to use for each workload type, we just don't know where it is stored
  - We can use the same approach as "runtime/runtime-params-estimator/res/" - submitting WASM contracts that this test depends on alongside the code and update them once in a while.
- Make it possible to specify which exact method of Congestion workload to run as a parameter

pytest/tests/loadtest/locust/README.md, after:

# Locust based load testing

WIP: This is work in progress, motivation described in https://github.com/near/nearcore/issues/8999

TLDR: Use [locust](https://locust.io/) to generate transactions against a Near chain and produce statistics.

## Install
```sh
pip3 install locust
# Run in nearcore directory.
pip3 install -r pytest/requirements.txt
```

## Run a first load test

The load generator needs access to a FT contract WASM and it needs access to an account key with plenty of tokens.
For a local test setup, this works just fine.
```sh
# This assumes your shell is are in nearcore directory
CONTRACT="${PWD}/runtime/near-test-contracts/res/fungible_token.wasm"
# This assumes you are running against localnet
KEY=~/.near/localnet/node0/validator_key.json
```

For a quick demo, you can also run a localnet using [nearup](https://github.com/near/nearup).
```sh
nearup run localnet --binary-path ../nearcore/target/release/ --num-nodes 4 --num-shards 4 --override
```

Then to actually run it, this is the command. (Update ports and IP according to your localnet, nearup will print it.)
```sh
cd pytest/tests/loadtest/locust/
locust -H 127.0.0.1:3030 \
  FTTransferUser \
  --fungible-token-wasm=$CONTRACT \
  --funding-key=$KEY \
  --tags ft
```

This will print a link to a web UI where the loadtest can be started and statistics & graphs can be observed.
But if you only want the pure numbers, it can also be run headless.
(add `--headless` and something like `-t 120s -u 1000` to the command to specify total time and max concurrent users)

## Running with full load (multi-threaded or even multi-machine)

Each locust process will only use a single core. This leads to unwanted
throttling on the load generator side if you try to use more than a couple
hundred of users.

Luckily, locust has the ability to swarm the load generation across many processes.
To use it, start one process with the `--master` argument and as many as you
like with `--worker`. (If they run on different machines, you also need to
provide `--master-host` and `--master-port`, if running on the same machine it
will work automagically.)

Start the master
```sh
locust -H 127.0.0.1:3030 \
  FTTransferUser \
  --fungible-token-wasm=$CONTRACT \
  --funding-key=$KEY \
  --tags ft \
  --master
```

On the worker
```sh
# Increase soft limit of open files for the current OS user
# (each locust user opens a separate socket = file)
ulimit -S -n 100000
# Run the worker, key must include the same account id as used on master
locust -H 127.0.0.1:3030 \
  FTTransferUser \
  --fungible-token-wasm=$CONTRACT \
  --funding-key=$KEY \
  --tags ft \
  --worker
```

Spawning N workers in a single shell:
```sh
for i in {1..16}
do
   locust -H 127.0.0.1:3030 \
    FTTransferUser \
    --fungible-token-wasm=$CONTRACT \
    --funding-key=$KEY \
    --tags ft \
    --worker &
done
```

Use `pkill -P $$` to stop all workers.
Stopping the master will also terminate all workers.

# Available load types

User classes can be used as subcommand of `locust` to run a specific load test.
By default, all user classes are combined. But the example above selects
specifically `FTTransferUser`.


When selecting user classes, it is also necessary to select the right tags that
control initialization code. For example, running with `locustFTTransferUser`
requires `--tags ft`.

Currently supported load types:

| load type | user classes | tag | args | description |
|---|---|---|---|---|
| Fungible Token | `FTTransferUser` | `ft` | `--fungible-token-wasm $WASM_PATH` <br> (`--num-ft-contracts $N`) |  Creates `$N` FT contracts per worker, registers each user in one of them. Users transfer FTs between each other. |
| Social DB  | `SocialDbUser` | `social` | `--social-db-wasm $WASM_PATH` | Creates a single instance of SocialDB and registers users to it. Users post messages and follow other users. (More workload TBD) |
| Congestion | `CongestionUser` | `congestion` | `--congestion-wasm $WASM_PATH` | Creates a single instance of Congestion contract. Users run large and long transactions. |

For the congestion workload you will need to use the following contract:

```sh
# This assumes your shell is in nearcore directory
CONTRACT="${PWD}/runtime/near-test-contracts/res/test_contract_rs.wasm"
```

In the future, we might have multiple users per load type but for now there is a
one-to-one mapping from users to load type (and tag).

If the table above seems outdated, list available classes using `locust
--funding-key . --list` and send a PR to fix it, please.
