CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

Thank you for your interest in contributing to the NEAR reference client!  We
welcome contributions from everyone.  Below are various bits of information to
help you get started.  If you require additional help, please reach out to us on
our [zulip channel](https://near.zulipchat.com/).

## Quick Start

nearcore is a fairly standard Rust project, so building is as easy as

```console
$ cargo build
```

Building nearcore requires a fairly recent Rust compiler (get it
[here](https://rustup.rs)), as well as `clang` and `cmake` to build RocksDB
(`sudo apt install cmake clang`).

Sadly at the moment nearcore is only compatible with Linux and MacOS, Windows is
not supported yet.

To run a local NEAR network with one node, use

```console
$ cargo run -p neard -- init # generates various configs in ~/.near
$ cargo run -p neard -- run
```

You can now use your own node's HTTP RPC API (e.g.
[httpie](https://httpie.io/docs/cli/installation))

```console
$ http get http://localhost:3030/status
$ http post http://localhost:3030/ method=query jsonrpc=2.0 id=1 \
     params:='{"request_type": "view_account", "finality": "final", "account_id": "test.near"}'
```

The RPC is documented [here](https://docs.near.org/api/rpc/introduction), and
can be conveniently accessed from the command line [NEAR
CLI](https://docs.near.org/tools/near-cli) utility.

## Next Steps

To learn more about how nearcore works, skim through our guide to nearcore
development:

https://near.github.io/nearcore/

If you are looking for relatively simple tasks to familiarise yourself with
`nearcore`, please check out issues labeled with the `C-good-first-issue` label
[here](https://github.com/near/nearcore/labels/C-good-first-issue).  If you see
one that looks interesting and is unassigned or has not been actively worked on
in some time, please ask to have the issue assigned to you and someone from
the team should help you get started.  We do not always keep the issue tracker
up-to-date, so if you do not find an interesting task to work on, please ask for
help on our zulip channel.

If you have an idea for an enhancement to the protocol itself, please make a
proposal by following the [NEAR Enhancement
Proposal](https://github.com/near/NEPs/blob/master/neps/nep-0001.md) process.

## Pull Requests

All the contributions to `nearcore` happen via Pull Requests.  Please follow the
following steps when creating a PR:

1. Fork the `nearcore` repository and create a new branch there to do your work.
2. The branch can contain any number of commits.  When merged, all commits will
   be squashed into a single commit.
3. The changes should be thoroughly tested.  Please refer to [this
   document](https://github.com/near/nearcore/blob/master/docs/practices/testing/README.md)
   for our testing guidelines and an overview of the testing infrastructure.
4. When ready, send a pull request against the `master` branch of the `nearcore`
   repository.
5. Feel free to submit draft PRs to get early feedback and to make sure you are
   on the right track.
6. The PR name should follow the template: `<type>: <name>`.  Where `type` is:
   - `fix` for bug fixes;
   - `feat` for new features;
   - `refactor` for changes that reorganize code without adding new content;
   - `doc` for changes that change documentation or comments;
   - `test` for changes that introduce new tests;
   - `chore` for grunt tasks like updating dependencies.
7. The PR should also contain a description when appropriate to provide
   additional information to help the reviewer inspect the proposed change.
8. If your PR introduces a user-observable change (e.g. a new protocol feature,
   new configuration option, new Prometheus metric etc.) please document it in
   [CHANGELOG.md](CHANGELOG.md) in the `[unreleased]` section.
9. It is important to select the ` Allow edits and access to secrets by
   maintainers` checkbox on the PR.  Without this option, the merge bot will not
   have sufficient rights to be able to merge the PR when it is approved.  It
   also allows the maintainers to make trivial changes to the PR as necessary.
   Please see
   [these](https://docs.github.com/en/pull-requests/collaborating-with-pull-requests/proposing-changes-to-your-work-with-pull-requests/creating-a-pull-request-from-a-fork)
   [links](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/63341296/github-pull-request-allow-edits-by-maintainers)
   for the implications of selecting the checkbox.

## After the PR is submitted

1. We have a CI process configured to run various tests on each PR.  All tests
need to pass before a PR can be merged.
2. When all the comments from the reviewer(s) have been addressed, they should
approve the PR allowing a PR to be merged.
3. An approved PR can be merged by clicking the "Merge when ready" button.  The
button can be clicked by the author if they have the appropriate access, or by a
reviewer otherwise.  PR authors can also click the button immediately after filing
a PR; removing an additional round-trip after the PR gets approved. The PR author
will be notified by email by github if the PR fails to land, once it has entered
the merge queue (ie. after it has passed PR CI and gotten an approving review).

## Code review process

We have two groups of code reviewers:  Super owners and normal owners.  When a
PR is created:

- a super owner will be automatically assigned to review.
- they may choose to review the PR themselves or they may delegate to someone else
who belongs either to the super owners or the normal owners group.
- the delegate will perform the review and as needed engage other reviewers as
well.  They will review your tests, and make sure that they can convince
themselves the test coverage is adequate before they even look into the
change, so make sure you tested all the corner cases.
- it is normal to sometimes require multiple rounds of reviews to get a PR
  merged.  If your PR received some feedback from a reviewer, use the [github
  UI](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/40893008/how-to-resume-review-process-after-updating-pull-request-at-github)
  to re-request a review.

The author is also free to directly request reviews from specific persons
[through the github
ui](https://docs.github.com/en/github/collaborating-with-pull-requests/proposing-changes-to-your-work-with-pull-requests/requesting-a-pull-request-review).
In this case, the automatically selected super owner will ensure that the
selected reviewer is sufficient or additional reviewers are needed.

The process for becoming a code reviewer is relatively straightforward.
The candidate should have a good understanding of the codebase and then
the existing super owners will discuss and approve the addition.  These
discussions take place on zulip so if you are interested in becoming a
code reviewer, please reach out to us there.

## Release Schedule

Once your change ends up in master, it will be released with the rest of the
changes by other contributors on the regular release schedules.

On [betanet](https://docs.near.org/docs/concepts/networks#betanet) we run
nightly build from master with all the nightly protocol features enabled. Every
five weeks, we stabilize some protocol features and make a release candidate for
testnet.  The process for feature stabilization can be found in [this
document](docs/protocol_upgrade.md).  After the release candidate has been
running on testnet for four weeks and no issues are observed, we stabilize and
publish the release for mainnet.

Commit message:

clarify responsibilities for the person clicking "merge" (#10077)

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

Thank you for your interest in contributing to the NEAR reference client!  We
welcome contributions from everyone.  Below are various bits of information to
help you get started.  If you require additional help, please reach out to us on
our [zulip channel](https://near.zulipchat.com/).

## Quick Start

nearcore is a fairly standard Rust project, so building is as easy as

```console
$ cargo build
```

Building nearcore requires a fairly recent Rust compiler (get it
[here](https://rustup.rs)), as well as `clang` and `cmake` to build RocksDB
(`sudo apt install cmake clang`).

Sadly at the moment nearcore is only compatible with Linux and MacOS, Windows is
not supported yet.

To run a local NEAR network with one node, use

```console
$ cargo run -p neard -- init # generates various configs in ~/.near
$ cargo run -p neard -- run
```

You can now use your own node's HTTP RPC API (e.g.
[httpie](https://httpie.io/docs/cli/installation))

```console
$ http get http://localhost:3030/status
$ http post http://localhost:3030/ method=query jsonrpc=2.0 id=1 \
     params:='{"request_type": "view_account", "finality": "final", "account_id": "test.near"}'
```

The RPC is documented [here](https://docs.near.org/api/rpc/introduction), and
can be conveniently accessed from the command line [NEAR
CLI](https://docs.near.org/tools/near-cli) utility.

## Next Steps

To learn more about how nearcore works, skim through our guide to nearcore
development:

https://near.github.io/nearcore/

If you are looking for relatively simple tasks to familiarise yourself with
`nearcore`, please check out issues labeled with the `C-good-first-issue` label
[here](https://github.com/near/nearcore/labels/C-good-first-issue).  If you see
one that looks interesting and is unassigned or has not been actively worked on
in some time, please ask to have the issue assigned to you and someone from
the team should help you get started.  We do not always keep the issue tracker
up-to-date, so if you do not find an interesting task to work on, please ask for
help on our zulip channel.

If you have an idea for an enhancement to the protocol itself, please make a
proposal by following the [NEAR Enhancement
Proposal](https://github.com/near/NEPs/blob/master/neps/nep-0001.md) process.

## Pull Requests

All the contributions to `nearcore` happen via Pull Requests.  Please follow the
following steps when creating a PR:

1. Fork the `nearcore` repository and create a new branch there to do your work.
2. The branch can contain any number of commits.  When merged, all commits will
   be squashed into a single commit.
3. The changes should be thoroughly tested.  Please refer to [this
   document](https://github.com/near/nearcore/blob/master/docs/practices/testing/README.md)
   for our testing guidelines and an overview of the testing infrastructure.
4. When ready, send a pull request against the `master` branch of the `nearcore`
   repository.
5. Feel free to submit draft PRs to get early feedback and to make sure you are
   on the right track.
6. The PR name should follow the template: `<type>: <name>`.  Where `type` is:
   - `fix` for bug fixes;
   - `feat` for new features;
   - `refactor` for changes that reorganize code without adding new content;
   - `doc` for changes that change documentation or comments;
   - `test` for changes that introduce new tests;
   - `chore` for grunt tasks like updating dependencies.
7. The PR should also contain a description when appropriate to provide
   additional information to help the reviewer inspect the proposed change.
8. If your PR introduces a user-observable change (e.g. a new protocol feature,
   new configuration option, new Prometheus metric etc.) please document it in
   [CHANGELOG.md](CHANGELOG.md) in the `[unreleased]` section.
9. It is important to select the ` Allow edits and access to secrets by
   maintainers` checkbox on the PR.  Without this option, the merge bot will not
   have sufficient rights to be able to merge the PR when it is approved.  It
   also allows the maintainers to make trivial changes to the PR as necessary.
   Please see
   [these](https://docs.github.com/en/pull-requests/collaborating-with-pull-requests/proposing-changes-to-your-work-with-pull-requests/creating-a-pull-request-from-a-fork)
   [links](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/63341296/github-pull-request-allow-edits-by-maintainers)
   for the implications of selecting the checkbox.

## After the PR is submitted

1. We have a CI process configured to run various tests on each PR.  All tests
need to pass before a PR can be merged.
2. When all the comments from the reviewer(s) have been addressed, they should
approve the PR allowing a PR to be merged.
3. Before merging a PR, the code should be reviewed properly. In particular, the
person who clicks "Merge when ready" has specific duties, exposed in the last
paragraph of the "Code review process" section below.
4. An approved PR can be merged by clicking the "Merge when ready" button.  The
button can be clicked by the author if they have the appropriate access, or by a
reviewer otherwise.  PR authors can also click the button immediately after filing
a PR; removing an additional round-trip after the PR gets approved. The PR author
will be notified by email by github if the PR fails to land, once it has entered
the merge queue (ie. after it has passed PR CI and gotten an approving review).

## Code review process

We have two groups of code reviewers:  Super owners and normal owners.  When a
PR is created:

- a super owner will be automatically assigned to review.
- they may choose to review the PR themselves or they may delegate to someone else
who belongs either to the super owners or the normal owners group.
- the delegate will perform the review and as needed engage other reviewers as
well.  They will review your tests, and make sure that they can convince
themselves the test coverage is adequate before they even look into the
change, so make sure you tested all the corner cases.
- it is normal to sometimes require multiple rounds of reviews to get a PR
  merged.  If your PR received some feedback from a reviewer, use the [github
  UI](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/40893008/how-to-resume-review-process-after-updating-pull-request-at-github)
  to re-request a review.

The author is also free to directly request reviews from specific persons
[through the github
ui](https://docs.github.com/en/github/collaborating-with-pull-requests/proposing-changes-to-your-work-with-pull-requests/requesting-a-pull-request-review).
In this case, the automatically selected super owner will ensure that the
selected reviewer is sufficient or additional reviewers are needed.

The process for becoming a code reviewer is relatively straightforward.
The candidate should have a good understanding of the codebase and then
the existing super owners will discuss and approve the addition.  These
discussions take place on zulip so if you are interested in becoming a
code reviewer, please reach out to us there.

The person who clicks the "Merge when ready" button is the one who
guarantees that no unreviewed code was added between the approving review
and the commit that is being landed. They must be especially careful of
commits that might have happened before the review, but not have been
reviewed (eg. because the review was already in progress), as they will
show above the review line on the GitHub UI. In addition, not refreshing
the page might lead to these commits just not displaying, so the reviewer
should refresh the page both before and after clicking "Merge when ready,"
and confirm that the commits are as expected.

## Release Schedule

Once your change ends up in master, it will be released with the rest of the
changes by other contributors on the regular release schedules.

On [betanet](https://docs.near.org/docs/concepts/networks#betanet) we run
nightly build from master with all the nightly protocol features enabled. Every
five weeks, we stabilize some protocol features and make a release candidate for
testnet.  The process for feature stabilization can be found in [this
document](docs/protocol_upgrade.md).  After the release candidate has been
running on testnet for four weeks and no issues are observed, we stabilize and
publish the release for mainnet.
