runtime/near-vm/lib/README.md, before:

# The Wasmer runtime crates

The philosophy of Wasmer is to be very modular by design. It's
composed of a set of crates. We can group them as follows:

* `api` — The public Rust API exposes everything a user needs to use Wasmer programatically through
  the `wasmer` crate,
* `cache` — The traits and types to cache compiled WebAssembly modules,
* `cli` — The Wasmer CLI itself,
* `compiler` — The base for the compiler implementations, it defines
  the framework for the compilers and provides everything they need:
  * `compiler-singlepass` — A WebAssembly compiler based on our own compilation infrastructure;
    recommended for compilation-time speed performance.
* `derive` — A set of procedural macros used inside Wasmer,
* `engine` — The general abstraction for creating an engine, which is responsible of leading the
  compiling and running flow. Using the same compiler, the runtime performance will be
  approximately the same, however the way it stores and loads the executable code will differ:
  * `engine-universal` — stores the code in a custom file format, and loads it in memory,
* `types` — The basic structures to use WebAssembly,
* `vm` — The Wasmer VM runtime library, the low-level base of
  everything.

Commit message:

publish near-vm crates (#8858)
This is needed for https://github.com/near/nearcore/pull/8782 to go well with the changes incoming with landing near-vm.

I have literally no idea how to test this, so I tried copying the way of doing things of #8782 and hope it’s right.

runtime/near-vm/lib/README.md, after:

# The NearVM runtime crates

This crate set is a fork of Wasmer. A significant number of things
changed, but the documentation is not up-to-date yet.

The philosophy of Wasmer is to be very modular by design. It's
composed of a set of crates. We can group them as follows:

* `api` — The public Rust API exposes everything a user needs to use Wasmer programatically through
  the `wasmer` crate,
* `cache` — The traits and types to cache compiled WebAssembly modules,
* `cli` — The Wasmer CLI itself,
* `compiler` — The base for the compiler implementations, it defines
  the framework for the compilers and provides everything they need:
  * `compiler-singlepass` — A WebAssembly compiler based on our own compilation infrastructure;
    recommended for compilation-time speed performance.
* `derive` — A set of procedural macros used inside Wasmer,
* `engine` — The general abstraction for creating an engine, which is responsible of leading the
  compiling and running flow. Using the same compiler, the runtime performance will be
  approximately the same, however the way it stores and loads the executable code will differ:
  * `engine-universal` — stores the code in a custom file format, and loads it in memory,
* `types` — The basic structures to use WebAssembly,
* `vm` — The Wasmer VM runtime library, the low-level base of
  everything.
