docs/practices/workflows/benchmarking_synthetic_workloads.md, before:

# Benchmarking synthetic workloads

Benchmarking a synthetic workload starts a new network with empty state. Then state is created and afterwards transactions involving that state are generated. For example, the native token transfer workload creates `n` accounts with NEAR balance and then generates transactions to transfer the native token between accounts.

This approach has the following benefits:

- Relatively simple and quick setup, as there is no state from real work networks involved.
- Fine grained control over traffic intensity.
- Enabling the comparison of `neard` performance at different points in time or with different features.
- Might expose performance bottlenecks.

The main drawbacks of synthetic benchmarks are:

- Drawing conclusions is limited as real world traffic is not homogeneous.
- Calibrating traffic generation parameters can be cumbersome.

The tooling for synthetic benchmarks is available in [`benchmarks/synth-bm`](../../../benchmarks/synth-bm).

## Workflows
The tooling's [`justfile`](../../../benchmarks/synth-bm/justfile) contains recipes for the most relevant workflows.

### Benchmark native token transfers

A typical workflow benchmarking the native token transfers using the above `justfile` would be something along the:
- set up the network
<!-- cspell:words subaccounts -->
```command
rm -rf .near && just init_localnet
# Modify the configuration (see the "Un-limit configuration" section)
[t1]$ just run_localnet
[t1]$ just create_subaccounts
```
- run the benchmark
```command
# set the desired tx rate (`--interval-duration-micros`) and the total volume (`--num-transfers`) in the justfile
[t2]$ just benchmark_native_transfers
```

This benchmark generates a native token transfer workload involving the accounts provided in `--user-dada-dir`. Transactions are generated by iterating through these accounts and sending native tokens to a randomly chosen receiver from the same set of accounts. To view all options, run:

```command
cargo run --release -- benchmark-native-transfers --help
```

For the native transfer benchmark transactions are sent with `wait_until: None`, meaning the responses the `near_synth_bm` tool receives are basically just an ACK by the RPC confirming it received the transaction.
Thus the numbers reported by the tool as if in
```
[2025-01-27T14:05:12Z INFO  near_synth_bm::native_transfer] Sent 200000 txs in 6.50 seconds
[2025-01-27T14:05:12Z INFO  near_synth_bm::rpc] Received 200000 tx responses in 6.49 seconds
```
are not directly indicative of the runtime performance and transaction outcomes.
The number of transactions successfully processed may be obtained by querying the `near_transaction_processed_successfully_total` metric, e.g. with: `http://localhost:3030/metrics | grep transaction_processed`.
Automatic calculation of transactions per second (TPS) when RPC requests are sent with `wait_until: NONE` is coming up shortly.

### Benchmark calls to the `sign` method of an MPC contract

Assumes the accounts that send the transactions invoking `sign` have been created as described above. Transactions can be sent to a RPC of a network on which an instance of the [`mpc/chain-signatures`](https://github.com/near/mpc/tree/79ec50759146221e7ad8bb04520f13333b75ca07/chain-signatures/contract) is deployed.

Transactions are sent to the RPC with `wait_until: EXECUTED_OPTIMISTIC` as the throughput for `sign` is at a level at which neither the network nor the RPC are expected to be a bottleneck.

All options of the command can be shown with:

```command
cargo run -- benchmark-mpc-sign --help
```

## Auxiliary steps

### Network setup and `neard` configuration

Details of bringing up and configuring a network are out of scope for this document. Instead we just give a brief overview of the setup regularly used to benchmark TPS of common workloads in a single-node with a single-shard setup.

### Build `neard`

Choose the git commit and cargo features corresponding to what you want to benchmark. Most likely you will want a `--release` build to measure TPS.

### Create sub accounts

Creating the state for synthetic benchmarks usually starts with creating accounts. We create sub accounts for the account specified by `--signer-key-path`. This avoids dealing with the registrar, which would be required for creating top level accounts. To view all options, run:

```command
cargo run --release -- create-sub-accounts --help
```

### Initialize the network

```command
./neard --home .near init --chain-id localnet
```

### Enable memtrie

The configuration generated by the above command does not enable memtrie. However, most benchmarks should run against a node with memtrie enabled, which can be achieved by setting the following in `.near/config.json`:

```
"load_mem_tries_for_tracked_shards": true
```

### Un-limit configuration
Following these steps so far creates a config that will throttle throughput due to various factors related to state witness size, gas/compute limits, and congestion control. In case you want to benchmark a node that fully utilizes its hardware, you can do the following modifications to effectively run with unlimited configuration:

```
# Modifications in .near/genesis.json

"chain_id": "benchmarknet"
"gas_limit": 20000000000000000               # increase default by x20

# Modifications in .near/config.json
"view_client_threads": 8                     # increase default by x2
"load_mem_tries_for_tracked_shards": true    # enable memtrie 
"produce_chunk_add_transactions_time_limit": {
  "secs": 0,
  "nanos": 800000000                         # increase default by x4
}
```

Note that as `nearcore` evolves, these steps and `BENCHMARKNET` adjustments might need to be updated to achieve the effect of un-limiting configuration.


Modifications of `genesis.json` need to be applied before initializing the network with `just init_localnet`. Otherwise `just run_localnet` will fail. If you ran the node with default config and want to switch to unlimited config, the required steps are:

```console
# Remove .near as you will need to initialize localnet again.
$ rm -rf .near
$ just init_localnet
# Modify the configuration
$ just run_localnet
```

## Common parameters

The following parameters are common to multiple tasks:

### `rpc-url`

The RPC endpoint to which transactions are sent.

Synthetic benchmarking may create thousands of transactions per second, which can hit network limitations if the RPC is located on a separate machine. In particular sending transactions to nodes running on GCP requires care as it can cause temporary IP address bans. For that scenario it is recommended to run a separate traffic generation vm located in the same GCP zone as the RPC node and send transactions to its `internal IP`.

### `interval-duration-micros`

Controls the rate at which transactions are sent. Assuming your hardware is able to send a request at every interval tick, the number of transactions sent per second equals `1_000_000 / interval-duration-micros`. The rate might be slowed down if `channel-buffer-size` becomes a bottleneck.

### `channel-buffer-size`

Before an RPC request is sent, the tooling awaits capacity on a buffered channel. Thereby the number of outstanding RPC requests is limited by `channel-buffer-size`. This can slow down the rate at which transactions are sent in case the node is congested. To disable that behavior, set `channel-buffer-size` to a large value, e.g. the total number of transactions to be sent.

Commit message:

bench(synth-bm): make binary selection more explicit (#12897)
Replaces #12817 where resolving merge conflicts has gone wrong.

docs/practices/workflows/benchmarking_synthetic_workloads.md, after:

# Benchmarking synthetic workloads

Benchmarking a synthetic workload starts a new network with empty state. Then state is created and afterwards transactions involving that state are generated. For example, the native token transfer workload creates `n` accounts with NEAR balance and then generates transactions to transfer the native token between accounts.

This approach has the following benefits:

- Relatively simple and quick setup, as there is no state from real work networks involved.
- Fine grained control over traffic intensity.
- Enabling the comparison of `neard` performance at different points in time or with different features.
- Might expose performance bottlenecks.

The main drawbacks of synthetic benchmarks are:

- Drawing conclusions is limited as real world traffic is not homogeneous.
- Calibrating traffic generation parameters can be cumbersome.

The tooling for synthetic benchmarks is available in [`benchmarks/synth-bm`](../../../benchmarks/synth-bm).

## Workflows
The tooling's [`justfile`](../../../benchmarks/synth-bm/justfile) contains recipes for the most relevant workflows.

### Benchmark native token transfers

A typical workflow benchmarking the native token transfers using the above `justfile` would be something along the:
- set up the network
<!-- cspell:words subaccounts -->
```command
rm -rf .near && just init_localnet
# Modify the configuration (see the "Un-limit configuration" section)
[t1]$ just run_localnet
[t1]$ just create_subaccounts
```
- run the benchmark
```command
# set the desired tx rate (`--interval-duration-micros`) and the total volume (`--num-transfers`) in the justfile
[t2]$ just benchmark_native_transfers
```

This benchmark generates a native token transfer workload involving the accounts provided in `--user-dada-dir`. Transactions are generated by iterating through these accounts and sending native tokens to a randomly chosen receiver from the same set of accounts. To view all options, run:

```command
cargo run --release -- benchmark-native-transfers --help
```

For the native transfer benchmark transactions are sent with `wait_until: None`, meaning the responses the `near_synth_bm` tool receives are basically just an ACK by the RPC confirming it received the transaction.
Thus the numbers reported by the tool as if in
```
[2025-01-27T14:05:12Z INFO  near_synth_bm::native_transfer] Sent 200000 txs in 6.50 seconds
[2025-01-27T14:05:12Z INFO  near_synth_bm::rpc] Received 200000 tx responses in 6.49 seconds
```
are not directly indicative of the runtime performance and transaction outcomes.
The number of transactions successfully processed may be obtained by querying the `near_transaction_processed_successfully_total` metric, e.g. with: `http://localhost:3030/metrics | grep transaction_processed`.
Automatic calculation of transactions per second (TPS) when RPC requests are sent with `wait_until: NONE` is coming up shortly.

### Benchmark calls to the `sign` method of an MPC contract

Assumes the accounts that send the transactions invoking `sign` have been created as described above. Transactions can be sent to a RPC of a network on which an instance of the [`mpc/chain-signatures`](https://github.com/near/mpc/tree/79ec50759146221e7ad8bb04520f13333b75ca07/chain-signatures/contract) is deployed.

Transactions are sent to the RPC with `wait_until: EXECUTED_OPTIMISTIC` as the throughput for `sign` is at a level at which neither the network nor the RPC are expected to be a bottleneck.

All options of the command can be shown with:

```command
cargo run -- benchmark-mpc-sign --help
```

## Auxiliary steps

### Network setup and `neard` configuration

Details of bringing up and configuring a network are out of scope for this document. Instead we just give a brief overview of the setup regularly used to benchmark TPS of common workloads in a single-node with a single-shard setup.

### Build `neard`

Choose the git commit and cargo features corresponding to what you want to benchmark. Most likely you will want a `--release` build to measure TPS. Place the corresponding `neard` binary in the justfile's directory or set the `NEARD_PATH` environment variable to point to it.

### Create sub accounts

Creating the state for synthetic benchmarks usually starts with creating accounts. We create sub accounts for the account specified by `--signer-key-path`. This avoids dealing with the registrar, which would be required for creating top level accounts. To view all options, run:

```command
cargo run --release -- create-sub-accounts --help
```

### Initialize the network

```command
./neard --home .near init --chain-id localnet
```

### Enable memtrie

The configuration generated by the above command does not enable memtrie. However, most benchmarks should run against a node with memtrie enabled, which can be achieved by setting the following in `.near/config.json`:

```
"load_mem_tries_for_tracked_shards": true
```

### Un-limit configuration
Following these steps so far creates a config that will throttle throughput due to various factors related to state witness size, gas/compute limits, and congestion control. In case you want to benchmark a node that fully utilizes its hardware, you can do the following modifications to effectively run with unlimited configuration:

```
# Modifications in .near/genesis.json

"chain_id": "benchmarknet"
"gas_limit": 20000000000000000               # increase default by x20

# Modifications in .near/config.json
"view_client_threads": 8                     # increase default by x2
"load_mem_tries_for_tracked_shards": true    # enable memtrie 
"produce_chunk_add_transactions_time_limit": {
  "secs": 0,
  "nanos": 800000000                         # increase default by x4
}
```

Note that as `nearcore` evolves, these steps and `BENCHMARKNET` adjustments might need to be updated to achieve the effect of un-limiting configuration.


Modifications of `genesis.json` need to be applied before initializing the network with `just init_localnet`. Otherwise `just run_localnet` will fail. If you ran the node with default config and want to switch to unlimited config, the required steps are:

```console
# Remove .near as you will need to initialize localnet again.
$ rm -rf .near
$ just init_localnet
# Modify the configuration
$ just run_localnet
```

## Common parameters

The following parameters are common to multiple tasks:

### `rpc-url`

The RPC endpoint to which transactions are sent.

Synthetic benchmarking may create thousands of transactions per second, which can hit network limitations if the RPC is located on a separate machine. In particular sending transactions to nodes running on GCP requires care as it can cause temporary IP address bans. For that scenario it is recommended to run a separate traffic generation vm located in the same GCP zone as the RPC node and send transactions to its `internal IP`.

### `interval-duration-micros`

Controls the rate at which transactions are sent. Assuming your hardware is able to send a request at every interval tick, the number of transactions sent per second equals `1_000_000 / interval-duration-micros`. The rate might be slowed down if `channel-buffer-size` becomes a bottleneck.

### `channel-buffer-size`

Before an RPC request is sent, the tooling awaits capacity on a buffered channel. Thereby the number of outstanding RPC requests is limited by `channel-buffer-size`. This can slow down the rate at which transactions are sent in case the node is congested. To disable that behavior, set `channel-buffer-size` to a large value, e.g. the total number of transactions to be sent.
