runtime/near-vm/lib/engine/README.md, before:

# `wasmer-engine` [![Build Status](https://github.com/wasmerio/wasmer/workflows/build/badge.svg?style=flat-square)](https://github.com/wasmerio/wasmer/actions?query=workflow%3Abuild) [![Join Wasmer Slack](https://img.shields.io/static/v1?label=Slack&message=join%20chat&color=brighgreen&style=flat-square)](https://slack.wasmer.io) [![MIT License](https://img.shields.io/github/license/wasmerio/wasmer.svg?style=flat-square)](https://github.com/wasmerio/wasmer/blob/master/LICENSE)

This crate is the general abstraction for creating Engines in Wasmer.

Wasmer Engines are mainly responsible for two things:
* Transform the compilation code (from any Wasmer Compiler) to
  **create** an `Artifact`,
* **Load** an`Artifact` so it can be used by the user (normally,
  pushing the code into executable memory and so on).

It currently has three implementations:

1. Universal with [`wasmer-engine-universal`],
2. Native with [`wasmer-engine-dylib`],
3. Object with [`wasmer-engine-staticlib`].

## Example Implementation

Please check [`wasmer-engine-dummy`] for an example implementation for
an `Engine`.

### Acknowledgments

This project borrowed some of the code of the trap implementation from
the [`wasmtime-api`], the code since then has evolved significantly.

Please check [Wasmer `ATTRIBUTIONS`] to further see licenses and other
attributions of the project.


[`wasmer-engine-universal`]: https://github.com/wasmerio/wasmer/tree/master/lib/engine-universal
[`wasmer-engine-dylib`]: https://github.com/wasmerio/wasmer/tree/master/lib/engine-dylib
[`wasmer-engine-staticlib`]: https://github.com/wasmerio/wasmer/tree/master/lib/engine-staticlib
[`wasmer-engine-dummy`]: https://github.com/wasmerio/wasmer/tree/master/tests/lib/engine-dummy
[`wasmtime-api`]: https://crates.io/crates/wasmtime
[Wasmer `ATTRIBUTIONS`]: https://github.com/wasmerio/wasmer/blob/master/ATTRIBUTIONS.md

Commit message:

publish near-vm crates (#8858)
This is needed for https://github.com/near/nearcore/pull/8782 to go well with the changes incoming with landing near-vm.

I have literally no idea how to test this, so I tried copying the way of doing things of #8782 and hope it’s right.

runtime/near-vm/lib/engine/README.md, after:

# `near-vm-engine`

This crate is a fork of `wasmer-engine`. A significant number of things changed, but the documentation is not up-to-date yet.

This crate is the general abstraction for creating Engines in Wasmer.

Wasmer Engines are mainly responsible for two things:
* Transform the compilation code (from any Wasmer Compiler) to
  **create** an `Artifact`,
* **Load** an`Artifact` so it can be used by the user (normally,
  pushing the code into executable memory and so on).

It currently has three implementations:

1. Universal with [`wasmer-engine-universal`],
2. Native with [`wasmer-engine-dylib`],
3. Object with [`wasmer-engine-staticlib`].

## Example Implementation

Please check [`wasmer-engine-dummy`] for an example implementation for
an `Engine`.

### Acknowledgments

This project borrowed some of the code of the trap implementation from
the [`wasmtime-api`], the code since then has evolved significantly.

Please check [Wasmer `ATTRIBUTIONS`] to further see licenses and other
attributions of the project.


[`wasmer-engine-universal`]: https://github.com/wasmerio/wasmer/tree/master/lib/engine-universal
[`wasmer-engine-dylib`]: https://github.com/wasmerio/wasmer/tree/master/lib/engine-dylib
[`wasmer-engine-staticlib`]: https://github.com/wasmerio/wasmer/tree/master/lib/engine-staticlib
[`wasmer-engine-dummy`]: https://github.com/wasmerio/wasmer/tree/master/tests/lib/engine-dummy
[`wasmtime-api`]: https://crates.io/crates/wasmtime
[Wasmer `ATTRIBUTIONS`]: https://github.com/wasmerio/wasmer/blob/master/ATTRIBUTIONS.md
