core/primitives/res/README.md, before:

## Core Resource Files

Stores resource data which is part of the protocol stable enough to be moved outside of the code.

### `runtime_configs`

All parameter value to configure the runtime are defined in `parameters.yaml`.
Parameters added or changed in protocol upgrades are defined in differential
config files with a naming scheme like `V.yaml`, where `V` is the new version.

The content of the base configuration file is one flat list of typed keys and
untyped values. Key names are defined in
`core/primitives-core/src/parameter.rs`.

The format of the differential files is slightly different. Inserting new
parameters uses the following syntax: `key: { new: value }`.
Parameters that change are specified like this: `key: { old: old_value, new: new_value }`.
Removing a previously defined parameter for a new version is done as follows: 
`key: { old: old_value }`. This causes the parameter value to be undefined in newer
versions which generally means the default value is used to fill in the
`RuntimeConfig` object.

Commit message:

docs: Add documentation about `parameters.snap` (#8471)
Fixes https://github.com/near/nearcore/issues/7642.

core/primitives/res/README.md, after:

## Core Resource Files

Stores resource data which is part of the protocol stable enough to be moved outside of the code.

### `runtime_configs`

All parameter value to configure the runtime are defined in `parameters.yaml`.
Parameters added or changed in protocol upgrades are defined in differential
config files with a naming scheme like `V.yaml`, where `V` is the new version.

The content of the base configuration file is one flat list of typed keys and
typed values (possibly with nested structure). Key names are defined in
`core/primitives-core/src/parameter.rs`.

The format of the differential files is slightly different. Inserting new
parameters uses the following syntax: `key: { new: value }`.
Parameters that change are specified like this: `key: { old: old_value, new: new_value }`.
Removing a previously defined parameter for a new version is done as follows: 
`key: { old: old_value }`. This causes the parameter value to be undefined in newer
versions which generally means the default value is used to fill in the
`RuntimeConfig` object.

The latest values of parameters can be found in `parameters.snap`. This file is
automatically generated by tests and needs to be reviewed and commited whenever
any of the parameters changes.
