docs/practices/testing/test_utils.md, before:

# Cheat-sheet / overview of testing utils

This page covers the different testing utils / libraries that we have for easier unittesting in Rust.

## Basics

### CryptoHash

To create a new cryptohash:
```rust
"ADns6sqVyFLRZbSMCGdzUiUPaDDtjTmKCWzR8HxWsfDU".parse().unwrap()
```

### Account
Also prefer doing parse + unwrap
```rust
let alice: AccountId = "alice.near".parse().unwrap()
```

### Signatures
In memory signer (generates the key based on seed). There is a slight preference to use the seed that is matching the account name.

This will create a signer for account 'test' using 'test' as a seed.

```rust
let signer: InMemoryValidatorSigner = create_test_signer("test");
```

## Store
Use the in memory test store in tests:
```rust
let store = create_test_store();
```

## Runtime
You can use the KeyValueRuntime (instead of the Nightshade one):

```rust
KeyValueRuntime::new(store, epoch_length)
```

## EpochManager
Currently still embedded into Runtime - see above to use the KeyValueRuntime

## Chain
No fakes or mock.

### Chain genesis
We have a test method:

```rust
ChainGenesis::test()
```

## Client

TestEnv - for testing multiple clients (without network)
```rust
TestEnvBuilder::new(genesis).client(vec!["aa"]).validators(..).runtime_adapters(..).build()
```

## Network

### PeerManager

To create a PeerManager handler:

```rust
let pm = peer_manager::testonly::start(...).await;
```

To connect to others:
```rust
pm.connect_to(&pm2.peer_info).await;
```

### Events handling

To wait / handle a given event (as a lot of network code is running in async fashion):

```rust
pm.events.recv_util(|event| match event {...}).await
```



## End to End 

### chain, runtime, signer

in chain/chain/src/test_utils.rs:
```rust
// Creates 1-validator (test):  chain, KVRuntime and a signer
let (chain, runtime, signer) = setup() 
```

### block, client actor, view client
in chain/client/src/test_utils.rs
```rust
let (block, client, view_client) = setup(MANY_FIELDS)
```

Commit message:

Migrate tests to use the new TestBlockBuilder (#8173)
* updated store test

* migrate remaining block test cases to use the new builder

* cleanup warning

* code fixes

Co-authored-by: near-bulldozer[bot] <73298989+near-bulldozer[bot]@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/practices/testing/test_utils.md, after:

# Cheat-sheet / overview of testing utils

This page covers the different testing utils / libraries that we have for easier unittesting in Rust.

## Basics

### CryptoHash

To create a new cryptohash:
```rust
"ADns6sqVyFLRZbSMCGdzUiUPaDDtjTmKCWzR8HxWsfDU".parse().unwrap()
```

### Account
Also prefer doing parse + unwrap
```rust
let alice: AccountId = "alice.near".parse().unwrap()
```

### Signatures
In memory signer (generates the key based on seed). There is a slight preference to use the seed that is matching the account name.

This will create a signer for account 'test' using 'test' as a seed.

```rust
let signer: InMemoryValidatorSigner = create_test_signer("test");
```

### Block

Use ``TestBlockBuilder`` to create the block that you need. This class allows you to set custom values for most of the fields.

```rust
let test_block = test_utils::TestBlockBuilder::new(prev, signer).height(33).build();
```

## Store
Use the in memory test store in tests:
```rust
let store = create_test_store();
```

## Runtime
You can use the KeyValueRuntime (instead of the Nightshade one):

```rust
KeyValueRuntime::new(store, epoch_length)
```

## EpochManager
Currently still embedded into Runtime - see above to use the KeyValueRuntime

## Chain
No fakes or mock.

### Chain genesis
We have a test method:

```rust
ChainGenesis::test()
```

## Client

TestEnv - for testing multiple clients (without network)
```rust
TestEnvBuilder::new(genesis).client(vec!["aa"]).validators(..).runtime_adapters(..).build()
```

## Network

### PeerManager

To create a PeerManager handler:

```rust
let pm = peer_manager::testonly::start(...).await;
```

To connect to others:
```rust
pm.connect_to(&pm2.peer_info).await;
```

### Events handling

To wait / handle a given event (as a lot of network code is running in async fashion):

```rust
pm.events.recv_util(|event| match event {...}).await
```



## End to End 

### chain, runtime, signer

in chain/chain/src/test_utils.rs:
```rust
// Creates 1-validator (test):  chain, KVRuntime and a signer
let (chain, runtime, signer) = setup() 
```

### block, client actor, view client
in chain/client/src/test_utils.rs
```rust
let (block, client, view_client) = setup(MANY_FIELDS)
```
