runtime/near-vm/lib/engine-universal/README.md, before:

# `wasmer-engine-universal` [![Build Status](https://github.com/wasmerio/wasmer/workflows/build/badge.svg?style=flat-square)](https://github.com/wasmerio/wasmer/actions?query=workflow%3Abuild) [![Join Wasmer Slack](https://img.shields.io/static/v1?label=Slack&message=join%20chat&color=brighgreen&style=flat-square)](https://slack.wasmer.io) [![MIT License](https://img.shields.io/github/license/wasmerio/wasmer.svg?style=flat-square)](https://github.com/wasmerio/wasmer/blob/master/LICENSE)

The Wasmer Universal engine is usable with any compiler implementation based
on [`wasmer-compiler`]. After the compiler process the result, the Universal
pushes it into memory and links its contents so it can be usable by
the [`wasmer`] API.

*Note: you can find a [full working example using the Universal engine
here][example].*

### Acknowledgments

This project borrowed some of the code of the code memory and unwind
tables from the [`wasmtime-jit`], the code since then has evolved
significantly.

Please check [Wasmer `ATTRIBUTIONS`] to further see licenses and other
attributions of the project.


[`wasmer-compiler`]: https://github.com/wasmerio/wasmer/tree/master/lib/compiler
[`wasmer`]: https://github.com/wasmerio/wasmer/tree/master/lib/api
[example]: https://github.com/wasmerio/wasmer/blob/master/examples/engine_universal.rs
[`wasmtime-jit`]: https://crates.io/crates/wasmtime-jit
[Wasmer `ATTRIBUTIONS`]: https://github.com/wasmerio/wasmer/blob/master/ATTRIBUTIONS.md

Commit message:

publish near-vm crates (#8858)
This is needed for https://github.com/near/nearcore/pull/8782 to go well with the changes incoming with landing near-vm.

I have literally no idea how to test this, so I tried copying the way of doing things of #8782 and hope it’s right.

runtime/near-vm/lib/engine-universal/README.md, after:

# `near-vm-engine-universal`

This crate is a fork of `wasmer-engine-universal`. A significant number of
things changed, but the documentation is not up-to-date yet.

The Wasmer Universal engine is usable with any compiler implementation based
on [`wasmer-compiler`]. After the compiler process the result, the Universal
pushes it into memory and links its contents so it can be usable by
the [`wasmer`] API.

*Note: you can find a [full working example using the Universal engine
here][example].*

### Acknowledgments

This project borrowed some of the code of the code memory and unwind
tables from the [`wasmtime-jit`], the code since then has evolved
significantly.

Please check [Wasmer `ATTRIBUTIONS`] to further see licenses and other
attributions of the project.


[`wasmer-compiler`]: https://github.com/wasmerio/wasmer/tree/master/lib/compiler
[`wasmer`]: https://github.com/wasmerio/wasmer/tree/master/lib/api
[example]: https://github.com/wasmerio/wasmer/blob/master/examples/engine_universal.rs
[`wasmtime-jit`]: https://crates.io/crates/wasmtime-jit
[Wasmer `ATTRIBUTIONS`]: https://github.com/wasmerio/wasmer/blob/master/ATTRIBUTIONS.md
