runtime/near-vm/lib/compiler-singlepass/README.md, before:

# `wasmer-compiler-singlepass` [![Build Status](https://github.com/wasmerio/wasmer/workflows/build/badge.svg?style=flat-square)](https://github.com/wasmerio/wasmer/actions?query=workflow%3Abuild) [![Join Wasmer Slack](https://img.shields.io/static/v1?label=Slack&message=join%20chat&color=brighgreen&style=flat-square)](https://slack.wasmer.io) [![MIT License](https://img.shields.io/github/license/wasmerio/wasmer.svg?style=flat-square)](https://github.com/wasmerio/wasmer/blob/master/LICENSE) [![crates.io](https://img.shields.io/crates/v/wasmer-compiler-singlepass.svg)](https://crates.io/crates/wasmer-compiler-singlepass)

This crate contains a compiler implementation based on the Singlepass linear compiler.

## Usage

```rust
use wasmer::{Store, Universal};
use wasmer_compiler_singlepass::Singlepass;

let compiler = Singlepass::new();
// Put it into an engine and add it to the store
let store = Store::new(&Universal::new(compiler).engine());
```

*Note: you can find a [full working example using Singlepass compiler
here][example].*

## When to use Singlepass

Singlepass is designed to emit compiled code at linear time, as such
is not prone to JIT bombs and also offers great compilation
performance, however with a bit slower runtime speed.

The fact that singlepass is not prone to JIT bombs and offers a very
predictable compilation speed makes it ideal for **blockchains** and other
systems where fast and consistent compilation times are very critical.


[example]: https://github.com/wasmerio/wasmer/blob/master/examples/compiler_singlepass.rs

Commit message:

publish near-vm crates (#8858)
This is needed for https://github.com/near/nearcore/pull/8782 to go well with the changes incoming with landing near-vm.

I have literally no idea how to test this, so I tried copying the way of doing things of #8782 and hope it’s right.

runtime/near-vm/lib/compiler-singlepass/README.md, after:

# `near-vm-compiler-singlepass`

This crate is a fork of `wasmer-compiler-singlepass`. A significant number of things changed, but the documentation is not up-to-date yet.

This crate contains a compiler implementation based on the Singlepass linear compiler.

## Usage

```rust
use wasmer::{Store, Universal};
use wasmer_compiler_singlepass::Singlepass;

let compiler = Singlepass::new();
// Put it into an engine and add it to the store
let store = Store::new(&Universal::new(compiler).engine());
```

*Note: you can find a [full working example using Singlepass compiler
here][example].*

## When to use Singlepass

Singlepass is designed to emit compiled code at linear time, as such
is not prone to JIT bombs and also offers great compilation
performance, however with a bit slower runtime speed.

The fact that singlepass is not prone to JIT bombs and offers a very
predictable compilation speed makes it ideal for **blockchains** and other
systems where fast and consistent compilation times are very critical.


[example]: https://github.com/wasmerio/wasmer/blob/master/examples/compiler_singlepass.rs
